Cockpit 311 (#710)
cockpit-project/cockpit-project.github.io: _posts/2024-02-14-cockpit-311.md

---
title: Cockpit 311
author: jelle
date: '2024-02-14'
tags: machines
slug: cockpit-311
category: release

> summary: 'Mass SPICE conversion, more storage pool type support'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: 'SPICE device replacement for multiple machines, storage pool support for pre-formatted block devices'
```

---

Cockpit is the [modern Linux admin interface](https://cockpit-project.org/).
We release regularly.

Here are the release notes from cockpit-machines 307:

> ## Machines: Mass SPICE conversion
> 
> The "Replace SPICE devices" action got introduced in the [previous version](https://cockpit-project.org/blog/cockpit-310.html) to convert SPICE-using VMs to run on a host without SPICE capability. When opened from the overview, that dialog now offers you to convert multiple or all VMs in a single step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Machines: Replace SPICE for multiple machines

"Replace SPICE devices" was introduced in [Cockpit 310](https://cockpit-project.org/blog/cockpit-310.html) to adjust VMs using SPICE to run on a host without SPICE capability. When opened from the context menu of a VM on the overview list, the dialog now offers to convert multiple VMs in a single step.
```

> ![screenshot of mass spice conversion]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/311-machines-mass-spice-conversion.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![screenshot of the "Replace SPICE devices" dialog with options to include multiple machines]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/311-machines-mass-spice-conversion.png)
```

> ## Machines: Add support for Pre-formatted Block Device storage pool type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Machines: Add storage pool support for pre-formatted block devices
```

> This pool type is similar to the existing "Physical disk device", but more robust: It avoids that the [guest sees and possibly reformats the raw disk device on its own](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/configuring_and_managing_virtualization/managing-storage-for-virtual-machines_configuring-and-managing-virtualization#proc_creating-disk-based-storage-pools-using-the-web-console_assembly_managing-virtual-machine-storage-pools-using-the-web-console).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Virtal machine storage pools now support pre-formatted block devices. This is a more robust alternative to "physical disk devices", as it avoids the guest OS seeing the device on its own, [which may lead to unintentional reformatting of a raw disk device](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/configuring_and_managing_virtualization/managing-storage-for-virtual-machines_configuring-and-managing-virtualization#proc_creating-disk-based-storage-pools-using-the-web-console_assembly_managing-virtual-machine-storage-pools-using-the-web-console).
```

> ![fs-create1]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/311-machines-add-support-for-pre-formatted-block-device-storage-pool-type.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Virtual machine creation modal dialog with "pre-formatted block device" selected]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/311-machines-add-support-for-pre-formatted-block-device-storage-pool-type.png)
```
